Hi everyone! Thank you all so much for inviting me and thanks to all who have joined today. I think I am having a fan girl moment with all the people on the panel today, I have   seen   all   the   work   they   do   in   R   and   the   community. So I am Adithi and I work as a Geospatial Analyst at ILK Labs in Bangalore. I started my R journey way back in 2017 and till I joined my work place in 2018, I cluelessabout the R community. So, my colleague mentioned one day that there are communities called R Ladies and R cat ladies, I started following them on twitter and then I attended an event to make your own website by Dorris Scott. I was blown away by how the whole meet up was smooth and I had my own web page by the end of two hours.So I thought if it could make me so empowered in just two hours, why not start something in a time friendly way. So, in August 2020 a few friends and I started the Bangalore, India chapter. And of course, the R-Ladies community is so helpful in every step in setting it up (thanks to Yanina!), the mentoring on how to make a chapter run smoothly or just setting up accounts. More than the chapter running smoothly, it was all the beautiful and amazing RLadies present helped us grow. Since we started recently not many people attend as of now though we do have a strong data base of people who are interested. And fortunately, all the amazing R-people Allison Horst, Maelle Salmon, Janani Ravi and Meenakshi Kushwaha who is going to be a keynote in useR! 2021 did events with us. We feel really privileged for all the support and help. Fortunately, our sister chapters help us reach out to more people. Thanks again for that. I stick to R because I know I have a whole community to help me. So, my useR! journey is very unconventional one though - I knew about useR! all along but I could never attend it. And it was a dream to attend of course. But constraints you know. So, one day Yanina, thanks so much, was looking for volunteers from all time zones and reached out. I was so excited and I jumped into it and said yes, I assist in some of partners and sponsors and program and content work. Everyone is super helpful and are a fantastic team. The way this whole conference has evolved to being held at one place and it’s going all global with volunteers from almost all different time zones. And the quality of content is so carefully picked and a lot of time and energy is spent on this. And with all this, we are trying to make it friendly for all time zones and areas of interest. And we hope to meet everyone there and increase our R friend list! I am super excited to attend my first useR! Sitting at your own places we will have a R blast, I am sure!
